high-ranking members of Iran's
paramilitary revolutionary guard have
reportedly been killed in a suspected
Israeli air strike in
Syria Iranian and Syrian State media say
a commander and one of his deputies died
in the strike as well as two more
members of the force it hit a building
in the capital Damascus Rescuers are
still searching for people trapped
inside the rubble Regional tensions are
escalating as Israel continues its war
on Hamas in response to the October 7th
Terror
attacks let's get more on this now from
DW special correspondent AIA Ibrahim in
Jerusalem a can you confirm this was an
Israeli
attack no we can't confirm that because
there has not yet been any comment from
Israel regarding uh that uh air strike
um that's not unusual for strikes
believed to be um believed to have
Israel behind them uh in the region
earlier uh this month um an an alleged
Israeli drone strike killed a senior
Hamas advisor uh in Beirut the Israelis
uh never confirmed nor denied or taken
any responsibility for it although it is
widely believed that it was an Israeli
uh uh attack so it's not unusual not to
have comment so soon after a strike or
to never get comment at all this
information is um you about the strike
has been announced on Iranian uh State
uh uh media that's according to the
Reuters news agency and what do you know
about the people who were
targeted we know again according to uh
Iranian State media that these were for
um revolutionary guard advisers military
advisers that were in Damascus advising
uh the government of um president Bashar
al-assad who is closely Allied uh with
Iran one of the few strong backers of
the Syrian regime uh
internationally um and there's there
also reports that a fifth person has
been killed although the nationality and
the details of that fifth person are
unclear and I understand all the caveats
about Israel uh acknowledging or denying
the strikes but is it unusual for Israel
to actually strike Targets in
Syria no this is a long uh followed
Israeli uh strategy uh bombing uh
Iranian Targets in Syria and these
strikes have become deadlier since the
October uh 7th uh Terror attacks in uh
in December of last year two guard uh
members were killed by an Israeli strike
uh in
Damascus okay DW special correspondent a
Ibrahim in Jerusalem thanks so
much and for more on this we're joined
Now by Middle East analyst Daniel
gerlock who is with the magazine Zenith
of which he is the editor and Chief and
it's specialized on the Arab and Islamic
world uh what were Iran's revolutionary
guards doing in Syria in the first place
well Iran's uh revolutionary God core is
present in Syria since the onset of the
Syrian Civil War um more visible since
2012 2013 so uh the uh irgc are advising
uh the Syrian government which means in
fact that have troops on the ground
they're uh they're conducting operations
they're having militias which are Guided
by Iran but not necessarily composed of
Iranian Nationals so Iran is very
present as a what comes close to
military ally of Syria um these strikes
are not new yeah Israel has attacked
Iran constantly in Syria however uh the
magnitude of the strike the violence of
the strike in the city of Damascus the
number of of of casualties is something
extraordinary and I think this is
another level of escalation we have
gotten newed to these strikes but this
is something a bit more violent at this
level taking out a spy Chief it appears
has has has Israel struck this high
before in Syria this big go yes multiple
occasions and on the first day of
Christmas 25th of December uh Israel uh
assassinated a high ranking uh irgc
commander in Syria uh his name was razi
musawi and this was so far like
according to intelligence information he
was one of the key coordinators of
operations of Iran in Syria with uh
Iranian militias the Syrian government
and at the same time Hezbollah uh I
wonder to what extent Iran is going to
respond to this because Iran Iran has
been taking many of those strikes of
course there is a shadow war going on
between Israel and Iran but this happens
in in a interesting geopolitical context
because there have been a number of
Iranian operations in the neighborhood
which the Iranians brand as anti-terror
operations using drones and and and also
missiles but at the same time there is a
very interesting sec reshuffle of the
security apparatus in Damascus itself
which happened yesterday so maybe it's
coincidence but maybe it also uh uh
there is an there is a connection
between these events and to what extent
is this linked to the war Israel is is
waging on Hamas and Gaza it is connected
because of course Iran considers Hamas a
member a part of its so-called axis of
resistance against Israel and the US how
the Iranians have made it quite clear
that the uh what happened on 7th of
October was a Hamas affair a Palestinian
uh attack and they had no hand in this
and I think we've have we've heard a
number of uh measured by its own
standards not very bellicose statements
of the Iranian government in particular
the foreign minister who seem to want to
deescalate not be dragged into this war
any further uh the same of course
applies to the US um but what we see on
the ground is something different and I
I wonder to what extent the Iranians are
going to perceive this as a provocation
uh the Iranians have struck a Target in
Iran a few days ago in Iraq in
neighboring Iraq for the first time in a
a few days ago and they said they had
hit a mad cell like a cell of the
Israeli intelligence service that was
illegally operating out of Iraq against
Iranian security interest so in a way
the Iranians might take this as an
official as an inofficial response by
the Israelis but that would at the same
time mean that the Israelis admit they
were hit by the strike in Iraq they were
pres this at least this is how the
Iranians are going to interpret it a TI
for Tat that I don't know when when when
it ends right well it's been taken to a
different level now and I think I we
should be really really worried about
this because this Shadow War has been
going on for some time but it seems that
both sides want to show we're not afraid
of entering a direct confrontation and
it seems that the netan government in
particular is really pushing towards it
I mean this is a gesture to the Iranians
to say we Israelis we're ready for
everything but of course nobody in the
region would be delighted about a major
escalation escalation let alone the
Americans or the Gulf States or anyone
who would suffer from it in the region
that's the last thing people need uh
Middle East Anis Daniel gck thank you so
much thank you Nick